<iframe src="https://yuzzfeng.github.io/demos/20200220_Harvey_wlevel.html" width="100%" height="500px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
<p>With increasing urbanization, in recent years there has been a growing interest and need in monitoring and analyzing urban flood events. Social media, as a new data source, can provide real-time information for flood monitoring. The social media posts with locations are often referred to as Volunteered Geographic Information (VGI), which can reveal the spatial pattern of such events. Since more images are shared on social media than ever before, recent research focused on the extraction of flood-related posts by analyzing images in addition to texts. Apart from merely classifying posts as flood relevant or not, more detailed information, e.g. the flood severity, can also be extracted based on image interpretation. However, it has been less tackled and has not yet been applied for flood severity mapping. In this paper, we propose a novel three-step process to extract and map flood severity information. This process was applied to an image dataset collected during Hurricane Harvey in 2017, as a proof of concept.
</p>
<p><small>Feng, Y., Brenner, C., & Sester, M. (2020). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2020.09.011"  target="_blank" rel="noopener">Flood severity mapping from Volunteered Geographic Information by interpreting water level from images containing people: A case study of Hurricane Harvey</a>. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 169, 301-319.</small></p>
